docs/src/README.md, before:

# Welcome to GetCandy!

We're delighted you are considering GetCandy for your project. We've spent a lot of time developing this package to bring headless e-commerce functionality to Laravel.

## What is GetCandy?

GetCandy is a [Laravel e-commerce package](https://getcandy.io/) which brings functionality akin to Shopify and other e-commerce platforms to Laravel. You have complete freedom to create your own storefront(s), but we've already done the hard work for you in the backend.

## Tech Stack

GetCandy 2 is comprised of two packages; `getcandy/core` which provides the e-commerce functionality and `getcandy/admin` (the one you install) which provides an admin hub built upon Laravel Livewire.

Although the admin hub uses Laravel Livewire, there is no requirement for your app to use Livewire itself.

## What are the future plans?

GetCandy as a company has grand plans to continue developing new functionality to help you build awesome e-commerce websites. We want GetCandy to be a true alternative to the likes of Magento, Shopify, WooCommerce, etc.

Keep an eye on [our roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/getcandy/projects/5) for future plans and recent releases.

## Get started

Enough waffle! Let's help you [install GetCandy...](/installation.html)

Commit message:

Feat - Namespace update (#527)
* Update composer.json

* namespace update

* Update composer.json

* Name update

* Change to Lunar

* Lunar rename

* Name updates

* Renaming

* Fix up tests

* Pint update

* Fixes

* Namespace updates

* Update README.md

* Fix up

* Fix components

* Fixes

* Update name

docs/src/README.md, after:

# Welcome to Lunar!

We're delighted you are considering Lunar for your project. We've spent a lot of time developing this package to bring headless e-commerce functionality to Laravel.

## What is Lunar?

Lunar is a [Laravel e-commerce package](https://lunarphp.io/) which brings functionality akin to Shopify and other e-commerce platforms to Laravel. You have complete freedom to create your own storefront(s), but we've already done the hard work for you in the backend.

## Tech Stack

Lunar 2 is comprised of two packages; `lunarphp/core` which provides the e-commerce functionality and `lunarphp/admin` (the one you install) which provides an admin hub built upon Laravel Livewire.

Although the admin hub uses Laravel Livewire, there is no requirement for your app to use Livewire itself.

## What are the future plans?

Lunar as a company has grand plans to continue developing new functionality to help you build awesome e-commerce websites. We want Lunar to be a true alternative to the likes of Magento, Shopify, WooCommerce, etc.

Keep an eye on [our roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/lunarphp/projects/5) for future plans and recent releases.

## Get started

Enough waffle! Let's help you [install Lunar...](/installation.html)
